The lectures and the course.
So it's called stats or
student evaluation, something.
If you, I mean go to your blackboard
and you can see the announcement.
So let me share my screen.
So basically when you go to the.
Courses. Oh home. Your blackboard.
You see the announcement for this
student evaluation of teaching or set.
So please go to this link in order
to figure out how you can put
your feedback about this course.
You already did once after
the reading week with,
which was informal an for my own purpose,
but this one is the official
one from the school,
so it's highly suggested to go there
and put your feedback on the course.
Uh, yeah.
Up until April 9 you have the.
Deadline for this.
Oh hello, how are you? Thank you.
Thank you for that. So let's start. Uh.
So if you remember, we start
from the stars, we said that.
The human individual saw these stores and
they wanted to travel to space to these
stars and at that was the beginning of
introducing some problems and solving
those problems by using some machines.
As a result, they wanted to build some
computer systems called them computer system
that do some computation for them, etc so.
That was the goal of the human individuals
to build some spacecraft from the
earliest steps of developing some tools.
So that was the beginning of
our journey for this course.
And so far we did the numbering system
which we need for any arithmetic or any
calculation on for doing processing
and providing some solutions to the
problems and then in order to build a
machine we introduce some basic gates.
I will use the binary system because
of the robustness of the such system.
Because we have only two values.
And then we introduced some larger units
to do, for instance multiplication,
subtraction and etc.
And then we said that sometimes for
some purposes we need to store the
intermediate results or we need to.
Repeat some calculations in order to
avoid multiple units of combination logic.
We can reuse the output of the
combination logic for another sequence
or another run of the unit,
so that's why we introduced the
sequential logic.
The building block of the sequential logic.
We were the flip flops.
Which are one flip flop is able to store
one binary number, digit zero or one?
And we said that by.
Put in more flip flops.
You can have larger units of.
Circuits that not that not
only can do the calculations,
but also are able to store the information.
Which we end up with the sequential logic.
As you can see, we are close
to building a computer system.
At this moment you if you remember,
we could build the calculators
by using the binary codes.
But here we want to make a
more complicated system,
which we call a computer system.
So you see,
we are close to end of this course trip,
but remember that when we reach this
point there is another Jenny gonna
start or so for this course we just.
At the beginning of the new journey I mean,
computer systems and all
parts of the computer systems.
So this is just the quick recap of our trip.
So we set that up Flip flop.
We build the flip flop by first
of all we build a memory unit by
or an S inputs and we said that
whenever they organize changes,
the estate of the unit changes.
We need to put a gate or latch.
By introducing enable input,
we could have an Rs unit with the large
because it Rs latch and then we set that.
As long as the latch is open the organist
change propagate this state of the unit.
And then we said that even the gate
or latch is long for propagating the
change of the input to the state.
So we said that is it possible to
reduce it period of time for the
enable input to just a moment.
Or we build the uh,
by stacking two large master
slave latch of Rs or D?
A large we could build a flip flop
that works based on the edges.
So basically,
edges are those moments that the Enable
signal goes from zero to one or one to zero.
And we said that some we can build a flip
flop working based on the two edges.
We can build a flip flop working based
on the one edge and by default and
by standard a flip flop is a large
memory unit that works based on the
single edges and positive single edge.
So that was the definition of the flip flop.
And basically,
as long as we have a positive edge flip flop,
gonna act and changes state.
Or acceptive. Inputs to the.
Flip flops and we show the block diagram,
but it's triangle and we call this Clock.
So this flip flop might be Rs, DT or JK
So here is the quick recap of the
four types of flip flops we built.
Rs flip flop just as a reminder.
00 stores. 01 R is 1 so reset.
S is 1 set and 11 don't care because
it's kind of forbidden action.
So the main output is called Q.
The other output is usually always
the not of the main output,
so that's why you put this one.
And by this triangle we know that
this is a flip flop. The D flip flop.
If the input is zero, it goes to inside.
If the input is, one was inside,
so set and reset.
There is no restore or there is
no forbidden action here.
For the T flip flop.
If it is zero, the input is stores,
so nothing changes inside.
If it is one, it makes the inside
complement of the previous state.
So if you had zero, it becomes one.
If you have one, it becomes you.
And the most complete flip flop
we introduced was the jakar.
00 stores, 01 reset,
10 set and again Remember,
K represents S.
Sorry,
reset or J represent S or
set. And one one here, there's a.
Action for that which is the complement.
That's why we cut it a most complemented.
Flip flop the most complete flip flop?
It has set reset and a
compliment and installed.
So this is the final design,
single edge by positive.
If it is negative,
meaning that it's single edge flip flop
that works with the negative edge,
meaning that whenever the Clock goes
from 1 to 0. We put in, not here.
So by default all the flip
flops are positive edges.
Works with this on the.
Images, but sometimes you can see
that there are some flip flops
that has not before the Clock,
meaning that they these flip flops are
working based on the negative edges.
And then we said that now that we
know we have the perfect flip flop.
Now we can build larger units
based on the single Flip flop.
So.
We start analysis and design
of the sequential logic.
We said that the analysis is simpler
because we are given the circuit
and we followed some steps to
analyze the given sequential logic.
Today we're going to explain the design.
If somebody asked us to design A circuit,
we have to determine whether we need a
combination logic or sequential logic,
and if we need the sequential logic,
how can we build this circuit?
So just a quick recap of the
analysis and design.
We said that we can categorize
all the sequential logic circuits
into three main categories.
Those that only have flip flops.
Those that have input and flip
flops and those that have inputs,
outputs, amplifier.
So you see the difference in
the combination logic.
We only had inputs and outputs.
But for the sequential logic,
we have flip flops.
Flip flops are representing memory,
so the difference between the
conventional logic and sequential logic
is the memory or the feedback wires.
So that's why we have to.
The be careful about the difference
between the conventional logic
and sequential logic.
So with this we started with
the simplest category.
Those circuits that only have flip flops,
meaning that they only have memory.
There is no input or output.
This is the analysis algorithm
steps for analyzing a sequential
circuit which only have memory.
So just a quick recap.
First and foremost,
we have to say that whether
the circuit is imagine we are
going to analyze this circuit.
The first step is that even
before doing the analysis,
we have to figure out that this
given circuit easy sequential
circuit or combination circuit.
So we said as long as there's a
flip flop or a feedback we are
dealing with a sequential circuit.
Otherwise it's a combination logic.
So here in this circuit we have 3 flip flops.
We have two feedbacks,
so it's a sequential circuit.
And now we have to follow these steps
about the sequential circuit analysis.
So the second step or the I mean.
The first from the sequential
logic analysis, is that.
What are the flip flops?
So you have to pick a name for
each flip flop and also we have
to note the type of flip flops.
Here we have a J code flip flop.
Before that if Flip flop
and see is Rs flip flop.
While they are flip flops
because they are all.
Positive edge triggered and are
all connected to single Clock.
Basically,
they are synchronized with only one Clock,
all of them changes the status together.
At the moment of this positive edge.
The second step is that what are the
possibilities for this circuit in terms of
the states of the flip flops altogether?
So basically each flip flop can
install one bit so it becomes 2 to
the power of number of flip flops.
We have 3 flip flops here.
In total we gonna have eight different.
States, for instance,
either 000 or 001 etc.
And then we put all these combinations into
a table very similar to the truth table.
But because we are dealing with memory,
we call this state table.
So basically for each flip flop.
At the current state we put columns,
so this is the current state of.
As this is the current state quarter
state of a current state of P.
Quantitative C and based on the.
current State of the flip flops.
We are going to see what is.
Going to be the next state of the flip
flops so each flip flop has another column
for the next state of that flip flop.
And then we have to fill out this
flip flop at the state table.
The left side is usually already
determined because the left side is
the all possibilities for the state
funds and 000001 up until the 111.
Basically all the minterms in the
left side gonna be in the right side.
For each cell we have to see what
is the input of the flip flop and
what is the correct state of Flip
flop and based on the action in
the input we have to see what is
going to be the next state.
For instance for the a flip flop.
Here we have 000 so C IS0B0180.
So the correct state of a is 0.
And the input of the AJ comes from the B.
Not. So B is zero followed
by the not becomes one.
K is connected to B to the main input,
so the the main output.
So B is 0, so zero goes here, so now.
The J input is 1,
the K input is 010 is set action
So regardless of the current
state in the Jacob Flip Flop,
the set action brings the
state to one so it becomes one.
So in the next state it becomes one.
The sample all the other cells in the right
part of the table and we said that for.
A short just for this summarization or
for the short notation of the flip flops.
Instead of saying that the
current state of the flip flop a,
you could simply say that a.
Because a is a name for that flip flop,
so this is a shorter way to show that
or the current state of the flip flop
a the second output or the not output.
We call it a bar.
So this way it becomes very similar
to the combination of circuits.
So now we have the.
Variable,
but these variables are not input variable.
These are flip flops and we have in the
normal form an in the complement form.
So this way you fill out the
right side of the state table and
basically now you know that for
if the second goes to this state.
At the first positive edge.
It goes to this state.
And after filling out this table,
the next step is a state transition
diagram which basically is that.
You create a note for
each state of the circuit.
The whole circuit is either 01, etc.
Basically, for each row of the
state table we can create a node.
And then. You have to see that
for the first positive edge,
what transition going to
happen from the zero goes to.
11011 which is based on this table.
So if you are at 0.
We transit to this State 011 so the
state transition diagram is very simple.
If you have this data.
So today we are going to go to
the design of a sequential circuit
that need have only flip flops.
So very similar to the previous steps,
we go with the with an example.
So if you follow these steps of the
example you can design any sequential
circuit that has only flip flops.
So he. Here is the example.
The famous example counters.
So we want to design A circuit that
does accounting from 02 N an would be
for instance a 1000 any decimal number.
So the first question before starting the
design is that what type of circuit I need.
I need a combination circuit or
sequential circuit. So as you remember,
this was the question in the midterm exam,
then the last one of the
versions of the midterm exams.
So at that time you had to design
it by a combination circuit.
But based on what we said in the
introduction for the sequential circuit.
If you want to design the counter
based on the combination circuit,
if you start counting from zero to 1.
And then you have to start from one to two.
You have to put the whole design.
So if this is the combination circuit you
have to input zero and your output one.
And now if you go if you want to go to two,
you have to. Repeat that design.
Put one and then out with two an
attachment so you know that. I mean, uh,
you have if you want to count to end,
you have to put.
End times this design.
Which is not an efficient design.
So now we want to use the sequential circuit.
So whenever you need to.
Store some intermediate results,
or whenever you feel like you need
a memory unit, you are indirectly
saying that you need a sequential circuit.
So this is the.
As at the first step.
If you need a memory,
you have to design A sequential circuit.
Otherwise the conventional circuit is OK.
So why I want to design A
counter based on the sequential
circuit or based on the memory?
Because I can store the intermediate result
of the counting and use only one unit.
I can install one and then I can count to 2.
And then I can store 2 and then in the
next step I found two goes to three.
Without repeating the circuit.
So this is the question,
so I want to count from zero to N and
at each time that I'm at the state I.
I want to move toward the I + 1.
To do this, I need to store I somewhere.
And then at the next step I just increment
the correct state eye to eye plus one.
Without the memory.
I don't know what was the correct
number that goes to the next number.
So. Now the next question is that.
And so we need a memory.
So that's why we need a sequential circuit.
So now the task of the design
of sequential circuit begins.
The first question is that
now that you need a memory,
how many memory you need?
In other terms, the memory unit that
we design are based on the flip flops.
So the question is that how many flip
flops you need for your circuit.
We are in a binary system,
so we are our memory unit gonna
store the binary digits 01.
That's why we can. I mean, reform.
Let this question based on
the number of flip flops.
So if you are going to count from zero to 7.
So from zero to 123 up until 7 in
binary system, it represents like this
000 to 122 up until 7 which is 111.
So you see that each state or each
step of the counting needs. 3 bits.
To store the intermediate number.
So as a result, because I have to store
a number with three bits, I have to.
Use 3 flip flops.
Each flip flop for each bit.
So the first question whether
we need a sequential circuit.
The second question,
if we need a sequential circuit,
it means that we need the memory,
how much memory we need?
It depends on the number of flip flops.
For this task,
because we are counting from zero to 7,
each number gonna be gonna need 3 bits.
So we need 3 flip flops.
So now that we know how many
memory we need, the next step is.
What are the changes between
the states of the flip flops?
We have we need 3 flip flops so in
total we're going to have two to the
power of 3 flip flops or eight states.
So now we have to figure out whether
the transition between these states.
So that's the this step that we have
to design the we have to show the
state transition diagram between
the different states of the circuit.
So because we said that we need 3 flip flops.
So each flip flop can I store 1 bit,
so in total we're going to have
two to the power of three or eight
different states for the whole circuit.
What are the changes between
these states based on the problem,
it says that we need to counter
so when we are at zero we want
to go to one when we are at one,
we want to go at two.
When are we are at two want to
go at three an attachment?
So this is the transition between
different states of the final circuit.
We haven't designed it,
but if it is on it,
that design should act like this.
Up until 7. So here at 7,
what is going to be the next state
if we see another positive edge?
So we expect this circuit
goes from 7 to water state to
six to five to four or to 0.
Any of you can help me?
The question doesn't say that the
counter when you count from zero
to 7 after seven, what happens?
But what would be your suggestion?
Philip says that let's count to,
for instance, that the next state,
or, for instance 910. So basically,
this way we need another memory unit
because we have to restore 4 bits.
So we need to add another bitan, etc.
But finally, even if you add more
flip flops at the end of the day,
you reach the last state and then after
that you have to decide where to go.
So always you have a limit.
Let's see. Also, Tatiana says that overflow,
so how can you show the overflow?
So basically you have to finish the wall.
Say that I'm done and then show something.
For now, our circuits are not going
to have any output or any input,
so that's why we don't.
We are not able to show anything.
The only thing is that we have the value
of the flip flops and by looking at the
value of flip flops we have to decide
at what the state the circuit is. Oh,
Christopher says that we can go back to 0.
So Christopher says that when
we reach the 7th, we go to 0.
This way we are doing some kind of loop.
Basically we count from zero
to 7 and then we back to zero.
Is kind of circular counting
this is one choice. Another two,
so this is the Christopher chose.
So because the question didn't
mention what happened.
If you reach the number N,
this is our choice.
This is our designer choice that we
can do this one. Go back to zero.
Basically the circular counting or.
This is another decision you can make
the circuit stock in that state.
So basically it is counts from zero to 7
and then after that it remains at. Other.
For all the remaining positive edges.
All the positive edges comes.
It remains at 7.
It repeats 7 again and again forever.
So this design only counts one
time and then reaches in.
Then the final state and remains
at the final state basically
repeats the final states.
But the previous one.
Counts up until the final state and then
goes to the first state and I repeat again.
So this is our choice.
So when you phone the state
transition diagram, you basically
know the behavior of the circuit.
So you from the problem
you go to the estate table.
Sorry you go to the I mean whether you
need a flip flop or no and then when
you need a flip flop you create this
state transition diagram which shows
the behavior or lifecycle of the 2nd.
So from this.
A state transition diagram.
You move to the state table.
A state table actually remember from
the analysis with in the reverse order,
so we first formed the state table
and then state transition diagram.
In the design we do the reverse.
We first form the state transition
diagram to show the behavior
of the circuit and then we move
toward the state table.
So the state table is exactly the
same as in the analysis algorithm.
So basically you have to form the table
similar to the truth table in the left side,
the current.
The state of the flip flops
in the right side at the.
Next state of the flip flops.
So because you said you need 3
flip flops so you have to put
123 flip flops and remember for
now these are general flip flops.
We don't know the type of flip
flops now it is.
These are may maybe JK are maybe T maybe D.
We haven't shown choose.
We haven't chosen the type of flip flops.
And then the state table for
each flip flop that you need for
your circuit current state.
An next state.
So because we have the state transition
diagram before this state table,
the filling filling of this state
table is very easy. Basically,
in the left side if I'm at. 0.
10 What is going to be the next state?
Anybody so this is a counter,
so from two we have to move
toward three. Yes, correct?
You see the difference in the design.
The state table is very easy to fill out
because we know the behavior of the circuit,
so we know that at each state
it goes toward the state.
So you have to simply fill out
the state table quickly.
So this is unlike the analysis.
You have to simply from zero.
You go to 1 from 1 you go to the two and
then from two you go to three and etc.
And in the last 1 from 7 we said that
either we go to the beginning zero or
we start in seven. But be careful,
this is their table may seem very similar
to the combination of truth table.
But be careful here, this is a state
table we are dealing with flip flops,
not with the binary input variables
and binary output variables.
So you see, a is a flip flop.
That has a corrected state and next state.
It's totally different from combination
circuit that we had input binary
variables and output binary variables.
So in the design algorithm
for the sequential circuit,
this table is very easy because you
already have the state transition diagram.
So if you.
Draw this state transition diagram correctly.
You can simply fill out the state table.
And now when you have this table,
you can design the circuit.
So imagine that we choose the kissed
offer options. We choose the.
Loop basically when we when
we reach the final state,
we go back to the first step and count again.
So what's the next step?
So now we know the number of flip flops.
We know the transition between these states.
The next step is that what
are the flip flops?
Now we have to put the go to the
market by the flip flops and
then attach them in a circuit.
What are the type of flip flops?
So basically to answer this question.
We usually in this course we
usually say that it doesn't matter.
Whatever flip flop you want, you can buy.
But usually in terms of efficiency.
It matters,
so you'll see what I mean by the
efficiency in the few in the next few slides,
but for now,
you can say that I want to design my circuit.
Based on the Rs flip flop.
So basically you had three flip flops.
So AB.
See so you say that I want to buy 3RS flip
flop and all of these flip flops are Rs.
Or you could say that I want to
buy D flip flops and these are my
second based only on different films.
You can say by T or JK
or sometimes you can say that
I want to design A circuit.
Based on mixture of the flip flops,
I want to make a as a.
Jaycar B as a Rs. And C as T.
The beauty of the sequential circuit
is that whatever flip flop you choose,
you can design this sequential 2nd.
So it doesn't depend on
the type of flip-flops,
so the previous steps are very important.
You have to. Form the state transition
diagram and then the state table.
So far it's very important.
After this step,
choosing the flip flops is yours.
So for this example,
I say that let's pick the JK
For all the flip flops.
So I want to design the circuit
based on three jaycar flip flops.
So I have the state transition diagram
based on this state transition diagram.
I formed this tape table and
based on the state table.
I want to design the circuit based
on the fact that all the flip
flops are JK flip flops.
So what is the next step?
Anybody?
Are we done or we need more steps?
So I draw the design.
So here is the design. So what? Uh.
What is missing in this design?
Correct connections connection between what?
So the question is that how
can I force the circuit?
To change, for instance from
this state. For this state.
Basically I have to ask the
circuit if you are at 01. 0.
At the first positive edge.
This design should go to 0.
Should stay at 0.
B should stay at one.
But a should trance transit to one.
How can I do that?
How can I say that a
from zero must go to one?
So without the feedback,
so in the jakar. We are at zero.
How can I force the flip flop
from transit from zero to 1?
Remember JK flip flops are
how the JK flip flop works.
If I have zero in the flip flop JK
how can I change the zero to 1?
Correct, basically you have to
determine the input of JK
If you do 11.
It does the compliment and it goes to one.
Or you can do the set.
You can say that I can put
one here and zero here.
Or set action so the main step
here is that what is the value
of the input to the flip flop.
So I have to determine what is the J of C.
What is the K of C? So what are the
inputs to each of the flip-flops?
These inputs forced the flip flops to
go to the next step without an in the
determining the value of the flip flops,
no transition going to happen
in this circuit. So.
This is another main step.
What is the Boolean expression?
For the flip flops input.
Because we chose Jaykar flip flop for
all flip flops we have to determine
the input of J for all of them.
The input of K for all of that.
We have a specific name for
them excitation equations.
So why we called this name becaused?
Based on these Boolean equations will
excite the flip flop the changes state.
That's why these Boolean expression
calls is called excitation equations.
Or simply we could say that input
equations for the flip flop.
So these are the same names.
So the main step is now that
we have the flip flops.
What are the input values for the flip flops?
We have a 3 flip flops ABC and these
are type J car so we have to determine
the value of J for a K for it.
J4PK4P and J4C and K4C.
Cole says that how can we
determine the value of the JK
But let's see what is the algorithm
because we have to follow these steps
for any type of sequential circuits.
So as I promised before now,
we don't want you to guess well what is
going to be the input of the flip flops.
We want to find an algorithm so.
Anybody? We can do design the
circuit by following these steps,
so there is no guesswork here.
So for now we know that what are going
to be the input of the flip flops.
Now we have to fill out the inputs.
So what are these equations?
So for now I need your full attention.
And before I start, I need feedbacks
from you that I know that you have
the full attention to the. Course.
Great everybody seems have the focus awesome.
Great so we have 19 student in the class so
thank you.
Others OK Nathan so.
Yeah, so far the only thing actually
was mattering was the state
transition diagram and then based on the
state transition diagram the state table.
And then we are free to
choose any type of flip flops.
But when you choose the flip flops,
the next step is what is the
input to those flip flops?
So be careful about this step.
The first is a.
Let's start with the inputs of the J.
What is the input to the
J input of A&K input of a?
So you have to refer to the
state table in the state table.
You have to figure out what is the input
of J&K for the a flip flop in order
to make transition from zero to one.
At the moment that the whole
circuit is at 000.
Or if the circuit goes to 001.
You have to figure out what is
the input of  JK in order
to make one transit to 0.
And then similarly 021120.
So you don't have to see the
value of B or C in the next step.
You only have to be careful the
value of a in the next step.
So let's see and determine
the value of JK
So let's start with the first row.
So I put this part.
This is not part of the state table,
it just a helping.
I mean table you can do based on your desire.
I mean you can separate this table in
another part or you can do it mentale.
So sorry you can do it.
I mean on a paper in another
I mean part of your design.
What I'm saying is that this is
not part of this state table.
I just put it.
Close to this table because it's
very helping us to design the J&K.
So let's see how.
So I'm saying that if I want to move
from zero to one for the a flip flop.
What is going to be the action?
And based on this action,
I determine the value of J&K.
So for the JCAR, if the current state is 0.
And I want the current state move toward one.
What is going to be the action?
The first action going to be
this action because set action
brings the flip flop to store one.
So set in order to do set action on the JK
the J must be one and IDK must be 0.
Or what is going to be the
other alternative action?
Phillip already said compliment yes.
You can say that I if I have zero in a,
I can do the action of
compliment and bring it to one.
So for the compliment I can do J1 and K1.
So you see that for transit from
zero to one for the a flip flop,
either you are doing set or
you are doing compliment.
So in both cases the J must be
one and the K doesn't matter.
Either zero or one.
That's why you put it X here, doesn't matter.
So this same is for the next row.
Outside the next row is that
a is 1 and it translate to 0.
Either I'm doing a reset reset means
that it brings the flip flop to zero.
In order to do reset on JK
RJ must be zero and K must be what?
Or you do compliment.
Compliment means that.
One one in the input of JK
If you do compliment, one becomes 0.
So in total either reset or compliment.
The only thing matters is that K must be one,
and J doesn't matter, either zero or one.
So you see that how the choice
of flip flops has an effect on
the sequential circuit design?
Because we choose JK for the a flip flop,
this is the way we are going to
determine the input of J&K for a.
So the same is for the next row.
For transit from zero to 1.
Either you do set, meaning that 10.
Or you do compliment meaning that
one one so the K doesn't matter.
The only thing matters is the
input of JK  such.
So now you see that these are
the value of J based on different
possibilities in this state of circuit.
These are the value of K based on
different possibilities of the circuit.
So if I'm saying if I'm asking
you what is the expression for J,
what would be your answer?
When the input J for a becomes one.
At this moment, at this moment and
this moment, and at this moment.
So remember whenever we want to put a Boolean
expression that makes the output one,
we write it based on the meters.
Here is the same we want to, J becomes one,
so I can write the J based on the meters.
But what are the meat ribs?
When did J must be one when.
The input this circuit is at the State 000.
You can say that this is a midterm 0,
but be careful here, the midterms
are not input binary variables.
These are flip flops.
What else at this moment this moment is?
What is the meter? Mid term.
2. And this moment. Return.
Four and then this one Mr 6.
So the midterms are 02. Four and six.
And what are these axes?
These are the excess that we we said
we don't care because they are either
zero or one so we have don't cares.
And what are they? Don't care.
They don't care. Tsar one. 3.
This 1/5.
And anything on Sept.
So you see, here it's very similar
to designing a Boolean expression
for a combination circuit,
but these are for input of the flip flops.
These Boolean expressions,
because they are for input of the flip
flop called excitation equations.
So the same is for the K,
so you have to write another Boolean
expression for the K of the flip flop A.
So as you can see here, although they
are similar to the Boolean expression,
but these variables are flip flops,
so you basically write the midterms.
And they don't cares based on the value
of the flip flops for the current estate.
But it's very similar to the Boolean
expression in the combination circuit.
So when we are done with the
Boolean expression for a for
the J&K we have to go the same.
We have to do the same for B&C.
So for the B. Again,
we go back to the state table.
And this time we have to
determine the value of J&K for B.
So be transit from zero to zero
in the next row from 021 in the
next row from 121 an attach.
So let's see what are the actions.
If I'm going to transit from
0204 B flip flop of type JK
The action is. So basically
we don't change anything.
So basically we store.
So zero goes to 0, the action going to be
store for storing the JK a flip flop.
The J must be 0 or K must be 0.
Is there any other possible actions?
Anybody?
From zero ghosted zero.
Any other possible action,
correct? Philip says.
Reset when we do reset,
we end up with a zero in the
flip flop, so.
Either you do store or you do a reset.
In both cases.
So.
Here is 00 store. Or
you do reset for the reset. J must be 0.
K must be one, so as you can see here,
J is always zero and K doesn't matter.
So as a result, K becomes
don't cure and J must be 0.
The next row is from zero to 1.
So you tell me. From zero to one.
What are the possible actions?
Zero to 1.
Either reduce ads because zero goes
to one, so the set J must be one and
K must be 0 or we do compliment.
For complement, both must be one.
So as you can see here, K doesn't matter.
J must be one. And this way you
fill out the whole actions for B.
And then you write the Boolean function
for J, write a Boolean function for K.
For the J, this is the midterm and
this is the mid term so you have two
meters is on the current state so
it becomes midterm one and becomes
midterm 5 midterm one and meeting 5
makes the input J of the flip flop one.
And these are the don't cares,
so they don't care tsar.
This is the don't care.
This is the don't care.
Also, the last two rows are the daughters.
Four day for the K.
This is the midterm,
the only there are two midterms that
makes K1 and these are the don't cares.
And here is the Boolean expression.
So for the J meter one and five,
and they don't care.
2367 and for the K Meteor Three and seven,
and these are the dunkers.
So you see that it's kind of.
I mean all those simple,
but it's kind of time consuming
because you have to determine
the input of the flip flops.
So if I ask you.
Is it possible to make it more
easier at the time that we had
the option to choose a flip flop?
So now that you know that if you have J call,
you have to figure out what
are the inputs for J&K Now.
If you want to change your
decision about the flip flop,
what would be your choice of the flip flops?
Nick says that T. So Nick says T.
Everyone, I mean anybody else.
agree with this choice.
Why the reason is that if you have T flip
flop you have only one input to Flip Flop?
You have only one T,
so then you have to only determine
the excitation equation or
Boolean expression for one input.
So as a result you have.
TA they have TB and you have TC so
you only have 3 Boolean expressions.
But here, because we have Jake,
are you have to input JK for each of them?
Another option would be deep.
If you choose the D flip flop the
same with the T flip flop because
for the D flip flop you only have
one input as resolve you only have.
One Boolean function for each flip flop.
In total. Three Boolean functions.
But because we chose JK
we need two Boolean function for J&K so in
total we're going to have 6 flip flops,
6 Boolean expressions.
So the next is for this C very
similar back to this state table.
Transition for the seat.
Based on its Roe C from zero goes to
0 from zero, goes to zero and etc.
Zero goes to zero.
Either restore or reset.
One to one, either store or set.
In this role, we have zero to 1.
Which either you do complement or set.
And you write the Boolean expression.
The only mid term is the here,
and these are the dunkers.
And also for the K,
the only mid terms that make K1
is here and these are the dunkers.
Be careful,
sometimes you're asked to
do based on the Max terms,
so Max terms you have to write the maximum.
Those that makes 0 be careful.
And here is the Boolean expression
or excitation equation for C items.
Three and these are the don't cares
in terms 7 and these are the dunkers.
So. What is going to be the next step?
Now we know the inputs of the circuit.
Whenever you have a Boolean
expression. What should you do
after the Boolean expression?
Correct, simplify.
So the next step is you have to
minimize or simplify your equations.
You have six equations.
You have to simplify each of them.
But the question is that if you
are going to use the carnal map,
what is the carnal map?
In this example, because the equations
for the inputs are based on ABC, which
are the flip flops at the correct state.
You need three variable karma.
In other examples,
you may need higher amicar map,
but here we need a free
car variable economy map.
So for each Boolean expression you
have to form a three variable colormap,
simplify that and write the
simplified version.
And these are the corner Maps.
So again, this is for the A.
This is the J of a in the corner favorable,
so if you simplify it becomes all one.
And this is the key of a.
If you simplify, it becomes one.
It means that always decay,
and a must be won an an each positive added.
Just switch between zero and one switch
at between one and zero an exception.
This is for be flip flop,
the JRB simplified to a decay
of be simplified to a prime.
Meaning that you have to input JRB
by the main output of a flip flop.
And for the input of K of the
flip flop you have to input it
based on the second output or the
complement output of a flip flop.
An exception.
So this is for the JC and Casey.
Now we can sketch the design.
Here is the design.
The J&K for a always 01.
The J and K4B the J is A and the
K is a prime and for this CJ
is a B&K is a B and these are
based on out simplification here.
But where is a A is here?
This is the flip flop, so a is.
This one. What is a prime?
A prime is either did not have this wire,
so you can make a note here.
Or you can hear is there a bar
you can attach this one. 2K.
So these are different wirings.
A&B here A&BA&B means that the
main output of A and with the
main output of P, so A is here.
B is here. And. It goes to.
J and it goes to K.
And here is the final design.
So we're done. The last step is that we
can test our design weather to to see this
design is working correctly. So for the test.
It is similar to analysis. Basically,
we assume that we design this circuit.
Now we want to do anala analyzing whether
to to see whether it's working fine or not.
So you can just test one or two random
states to see your second is working fine.
So this is optional just to make
sure that your design is correct, so.
I put this example based on the question if
the circuit is at this State 101 which is 5.
We expect our circuit goes to.
What number?
After the first positive edge,
we want the circuit cost from
5 to what it what number.
66 is 110. So we have to check whether
this second goes to this state or not.
So let's start. If you are at 1:01,
imagine we are at the Safe 5
and the first positive edge.
Cops what are the changes?
The change for this flip flop,
which is the air flip flop.
Based on the fact he said that
the input or one and one one and
one is the compliment, so one.
In the correct state,
transit to its complement, which is 0.
What's happening with the B?
B is 0.
And the input to the J&KJ is attached to a.
So a is 1, J is 1.
Anne K off the be Flip flop is attached to.
A bar A is 1 keyboard. A boy becomes 0.
So K of the flip flop is 010 in
the jacon flip flop of P makes
it set so it becomes one.
So it it was already 0.
The J is a which is 1.
The K is a prime which is 1
followed by power becomes 0.
So this is the set action goes to one.
And then what's happening
with the Z with the C? See.
This is the see flip flop,
it's one. The inputs is. A.
And B. A is 1B is 0A and B is 0,
so A&B is at the end of a N10
becomes 0 so it's zero and also KO.
For the Jacob flip flop, both input R0,
it means that the store so it stores
it or whatever it already had.
So one stores 21.
So this is the. A final set final
state after the first positive edge.
Transit from 1:01 close to 110 and it
works so you can try another random state
and see if it's working correctly or not.
And here is the design recap.
So first and foremost for any question.
You have to figure out you need a
combination circuit or sequential circuit.
In another word, do you need a memory?
If you need a memory you are dealing
with designing a sequential circuit.
How many memory you need?
We know only flip flops,
so how many flip flops you
need to store the information?
Based on the number of flip flops,
you gonna have different states for the
circuit based on the different states
of the circuit you form this state.
Transition diver
based on this state transition diagram,
you've formed the state table and
you fill out the state table.
So far from these steps.
For any sequential circuit
you need to do this.
An after the complete state table.
This is the most important
one as you remember.
If there is a typo,
if if there is some error in this table,
it in it has an impact
in other further steps.
So after filling out this table,
now it's your choice to
choose the flip flops.
Either RSDTJ car or mixed,
and after you choose your flip flops,
you have to write the Boolean
expression for the input of each
flip flop or excitation equations.
And then you have to minimize
the equations and then you have
this sketch or draw the 2nd.
You can finally test your desire to make
sure that all your steps are correct.
There are two more advanced
advanced to think about.
The sequential design is this.
First and foremost,
this is the newest step. For us,
which we call it excitation equation.
As I said Boolean writing
the Boolean expression for
the input of the flip flops.
It's kind of new to us,
but all other steps are kind of
similar to the combination of design.
Another thing is that I don't cover
this part. I call it advanced.
There is another simplification for
the sequential circuits based on
simplifying the state transition diagram.
I don't cover this here as you can see,
the only minimization you had.
This simplification of the equations
for the inputs of the flip flops,
but there is another simplification.
I leave it for you at this course.
There's a course called theorem
automata in the Universal Windsor.
This course is called computer
languages grammars and translators.
In this course, you deal with a lot
of different transition diagrams.
And in this course they teach you how
to simplify a state transition diagram.
If you simplify a state
transition diagram as a result,
you end up with a simplified state table and
as a result you need less number of memories.
This is very important. For instance,
for our design we need 3 flip flops.
In some situations you can reduce
the number of flip flops to less,
for instance two or one by simplifying
the state transition diagram.
And as a result you need
less number of flip flops.
You spend less number of money,
less money for buying the flip flops.
But we don't cover this here,
just for those that are interested in.
More simplification of the
sequential circuits and.
We're done for today.
In the next lecture we are going
to add inputs and outputs to our
analysis and design of the circuits.
So far we only had flip flops
for analysis and the design we
want to make it more complex.
We want to add inputs and
outputs to the circuit.
And any questions I'm happy
to take your questions.
No questions.
All.
Usually the jaycar because jaycar Ovo
although it has two inputs so basically Nick,
Nick asks that which Flip flop
is usually used in the circuit.
This based on my experience,
Jeka is usually used mostly because.
Although you need to provide a quick
I mean excitation equation for J&K.
So you need 2.
Equations for each flip flop.
But because it has.
Compliments action.
It introduced more simplification,
so let's back to our design.
For instance, for the here.
Because it is for the actions.
Usually you have two options,
either reset or restore or set complements.
**** as a result, you gonna have don't
care conditions and these don't care.
Conditions helps you to
simplify the Boolean expression,
so that's why it's better to
have the Jacob because more
actions are more simplifications.
But again. Sometimes you are.
You have to do for instance
based on the D flip flop.
It depends on the type of sequential circuit.
As I said, if you need a memory
unit to just store the information.
We usually use D flip flop,
whatever goal is in is in,
the input goes directly to the flip flop.
For the counters we usually use jakar.
Or sometimes she flip flopped
Flip Flop is also a good choice.
But the flip flop is not usually
used for the counters.
Based on my experience.
Or as Flip Flop is also years,
but because Rs flip flops has forbidden
actions, so usually jeka is preferable.
I mean compared to Rs.
Yeah.
But at home, try to design the same
circuit based on T and you see
that it is also a better design.
So let's go back to our design here.
You see that the only
gate you need is an Ant.
3 Flip flop and and add.
It's very simple although.
You need a lot of simplification.
A lot of corner map and etc.
It takes a longer time for
you to design the circuit,
but the final circuit is very simplified
so only one and an flip flip flops.
Tried by T flip flop?
By T flip flop you may have
more gates in the final design.
Or by D flip flop or others?
Although you say that OK
because for the D or T you need
only one input equations,
so it's easier to do that.
But the final circuit gonna have more gates.
Yeah.
For instance, for those that are
kind of lazy, they may say that OK,
T or D is better because we need
only one equation, But the final.
Circuit gonna have more gates.
Kind of, I mean, if you.
Act greedy, you may end up with.
I mean kind of more complex circuit.
But if you be patient and use
the JK your final circuit
gonna have less number of gates
You too you too and I'm going
to be in the office hour of the
Virtual Office and I'm happy to
take your questions there as well.
Have a good day guys. Take care.
Bye
You're welcome. Have a great day.